.TH AMDGPU-PCIID 1 "October 2019" "amdgpu-utils" "AMDGPU-UTILS Manual"
.nh
.SH NAME
amdgpu-pciid \- synchronize the GPU name decode file with official source

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amdgpu-pciid
.RB [ \-\-debug ]
.br
.B amdgpu-pciid
.RB [ \-\-help " | " \-\-about "]"
.br
.B amdgpu-pciid
.RB [ \-\-install " | " \-\-install_repository  "] [" \-\-force "] [" \-\-debug "]
.br
.B amdgpu-pciid
.RB [ \-\-download "] [" \-\-debug "]

.SH CONFIGURATION
All amdgpu-utils require that compatible GPU cards and drivers are installed and that
the feature to access them is enabled.  This can be accomplished by adding
amdgpu.ppfeaturemask=0xfffd7fff to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT value in
/etc/default/grub and executing update-grub.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B amdgpu-pciid
allows the user to interact with the official source of PCI identification decode data at
https://pci-ids.ucw.cz/v2.2/pci.ids
It can be used to download a local copy of the AMD entries or to update the data file used by
\fBamdgpu-utils\fR to decode GPU names.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR " \-\-about"
Will display details about
.B amdgpu-pciid\fP.
.TP
.BR " \-\-download"
Will download a copy of the AMD GPU decode entries from
https://pci-ids.ucw.cz/v2.2/pci.ids
and save in your current directory.
.TP
.BR " \-\-install"
Will update a local version of the \fBamdgpu-utils\fR PCI ID data file with AMD GPU name decode information
for use with \fBamdgpu-utils\fR.
.TP
.BR " \-\-install_repository"
Same as \fB\-\-install\fR except that the repository version is updated.  This should not be used in most cases.
.TP
.BR " \-\-force"
Will result in the the \fBamdgpu-utils\fR data file being updated with the latest from
https://pci-ids.ucw.cz/v2.2/pci.ids
even if no changes are detected.
.TP
.BR " \-\-debug"
Will display additional details useful in troubleshooting.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
.B amdgpu-pciid

.fi
Will display details about the current decode file being used by \fBamdgpu-utils\fR.
.P
.nf
.B amdgpu-pciid \-\-install

.fi
Will extract the latest AMD GPU decode data from https://pci-ids.ucw.cz/v2.2/pci.ids
and update the local \fBamdgpu-util\fR PCI ID data file.  It will report the old and new versions of
the decode data and update only if a new version is available.  If the \fB\-\-force\fR
is specified, then the data file will be refreshed even if the version has not been updated.
.P

.SH "FILES"
.PP
.TP
\fB/usr/share/ricks-amdgpu-utils/amd_pci_id.txt\fR
A list of all known AMD PCI ID's (vendors, devices, classes and subclasses).
.TP
\fB~/.amdgpu-utils/amd_pci_id.txt\fR
A locally updated list of all known AMD PCI ID's (vendors, devices, classes and subclasses). This is produced
with the \fBamdgpu-pciid --install\fR command and if it exists, is used instead if the /usr/share version.
.TP
\fB/sys/class/drm/card*/device/pp_od_clk_voltage\fR
Special driver file for each GPU required for \fBamdgpu-utils\fR.
.TP
\fB/etc/default/grub\fR
The grub defaults file where amdgpu.ppfeaturemask needs to be set.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
Please report any additional bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/amdgpu-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR amdgpu (4)
.BR update-grub (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The amdgpu-pciid command is part of the amdgpu-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/amdgpu-utils
