.TH AMDGPU-MONITOR 1 "October 2019" "amdgpu-utils" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
amdgpu-monitor \- continuously update a display of the state of all compatible AMD GPUs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amdgpu-monitor
.RB [ \-\-help "] [" \-\-about "]"
.br
.B amdgpu-monitor
.RB [ \-\-gui "] [" \-\-no_fan "] [" \-\-plot "] [" \-\-ltz "] [" \-\-sleep " \fIN\fP] [" \-\-debug "] [" \-\-pdebug "]

.SH CONFIGURATION
All amdgpu-utils require that compatible GPU cards and drivers are installed and that
the feature to access them is enabled.  This can be accomplished by adding
amdgpu.ppfeaturemask=0xfffd7fff to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT value in
/etc/default/grub and executing update-grub.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B amdgpu-monitor
will continuously display the current state of all compatible AMD GPUs. The default
behavior is to update a text based table in the current window until Ctrl-C is pressed.
Command line options can alter this behaviour allowing the use of GUI, modifying update
interval, excluding fans, writing to a log, selecting UTC or local time zone, and
engaging a graphical display of real-time trends of relevant parameters.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR " \-\-about"
Will display details about 
.B amdgpu-monitor\fP.
.TP
.BR " \-\-gui"
With the *--gui* option, a table of relevant parameters will be updated
in a Gtk window.
.TP
.BR " \-\-log"
Write all monitor data to a logfile.  The real-time display will indicate that logging
is enabled and will show the filename used.
.TP
.BR " \-\-ltz"
Use local time zone instead of UTC for displays and logging.
.TP
.BR " \-\-no_fan"
Will exclude fan information from the display.  Useful with watercooled GPUs.
.TP
.BR " \-\-pdebug"
Will enable debug output for the \fBamdgpu-plot\fR plotting utility.
.TP
.BR " \-\-plot"
Open and write to, \fBamdgpu-plot\fR, the amdgpu-util plotting utility.
.TP
.BR " \-\-sleep " \fIN\fR
Specifies N, the number of seconds to sleep between updates.
.TP
.BR " \-\-debug"
Will display additional details useful in troubleshooting.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH BUGS
Known to not work well with Fiji ProDuo cards and will issue warning messages for Fiji Nano cards.
Please report any additional bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/amdgpu-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR amdgpu (4),
.BR amdgpu-plot (1)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The amdgpu-monitor command is part of the amdgpu-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/amdgpu-utils
