.TH AMDGPU\-LS 1 "October 2019" "amdgpu-utils" "AMDGPU-UTILS Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
amdgpu-ls \- display details about amdgpu compatible GPU cards

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amdgpu-ls
.RB [ \-\-debug ]
.br
.B amdgpu-ls
.RB [ \-\-help "] [" \-\-about "]"
.br
.B amdgpu-ls
.RB [ \-\-clinfo "] [" \-\-no_fan "] [" \-\-ppm "] [" \-\-pstates "]

.SH CONFIGURATION
All amdgpu-utils require that compatible GPU cards and drivers are installed and that
the feature to access them is enabled.  This can be accomplished by adding
amdgpu.ppfeaturemask=0xfffd7fff to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT value in
/etc/default/grub and executing update-grub.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B amdgpu-ls
displays most relevant parameters for installed and compatible AMD GPUs.
The default behavior is to list relevant base parameters by GPU.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR " \-\-about"
Will display details about 
.B amdgpu-ls\fP.
.TP
.BR " \-\-clinfo"
If the clinfo package is installed, openCL details will be included in the output
for each compatible AMD GPU.
.TP
.BR " \-\-no_fan"
Will exclude fan information from the display.  Useful with watercooled GPUs.
.TP
.BR " \-\-ppm"
Will display descriptions of available power performance modes.
.TP
.BR " \-\-pstates"
Will display P-state table for system and memory clocks.
.TP
.BR " \-\-debug"
Will display additional details useful in troubleshooting.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
.B amdgpu-ls

.fi
This will display the basic parameters for all compatible AMD GPUs.  These include
device ID, GPU frequency/voltage control type, decoded device ID, card model, short card model,
display card model, card number, card path, PCIe ID, driver, vBIOS version, HWmon path, current power,
power cap, power cap range, fan enable, fan PWM mode, current fan PWM, current fan speed,
fan target speed, fan speed range, fan PWM range, current temp, critical temp, current VddGF,
Vddc range, current loading, link speed, link width, current Sclk p-state, current Sclk frequency,
Sclk range, current Mclk p-state, current Mclk frequency, Mclk range, power performance mode,  and
power force performance level.
.P
.B amdgpu-ls \-\-clinfo

.fi
In addition to the basic parameters, openCL parameters are also displayed for each compatible AMD GPU.
This option is dependent on the installation of \fBclinfo\fR.
.P
.B amdgpu-ls \-\-ppm

.fi
Instead of the basic parameters, a table of power/performance modes is displayed.
.P
.B amdgpu-ls \-\-pstates

.fi
Instead of the basic parameters, a table of power states or curve points is displayed.
.P

.SH BUGS
Known to not work well with Fiji ProDuo cards and will issue warning messages for Fiji Nano cards.
Please report any additional bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/amdgpu-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR clinfo (1),
.BR amdgpu (4)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The amdgpu-ls command is part of the amdgpu-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/amdgpu-utils
