.TH AMDGPU-PLOT 1 "October 2019" "amdgpu-utils" "AMDGPU-UTILS Manual"
.nh
.SH NAME
amdgpu-plot \- continuously update and plot critical GPU parameters as a function of time

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amdgpu-plot
.RB [ \-\-help " | " \-\-about "]"
.br
.B amdgpu-plot
.RB [ \-\-no_fan "] [" \-\-stdin "] [" \-\-simlog "] [" \-\-ltz "] [" \-\-sleep " \fIN\fP] [" \-\-debug "]

.SH CONFIGURATION
All amdgpu-utils require that compatible GPU cards and drivers are installed and that
the feature to access them is enabled.  This can be accomplished by adding
amdgpu.ppfeaturemask=0xfffd7fff to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT value in
/etc/default/grub and executing update-grub.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B amdgpu-plot
will continuously plot a trend of critical GPU parameters for all compatible AMD GPUs.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR " \-\-about"
Will display details about
.B amdgpu-plot\fP.
.TP
.BR " \-\-ltz"
Use local time zone instead of UTC for displays and logging.
.TP
.BR " \-\-no_fan"
Will exclude fan information from the display.  Useful with watercooled GPUs.
.TP
.BR " \-\-stdin"
Will read data from stdin.  This is useful to display plots of a logfile save with \fBamdgpu-monitor\fR.
.TP
.BR " \-\-simlog"
When used with the \-\-stdin option, it will simulate the reading of data from the logfile at a rate
define by \fB\-\-sleep\fR.
.TP
.BR " \-\-sleep " \fIN\fP
Specifies N, the number of seconds to sleep between updates.
.TP
.BR " \-\-debug"
Will display additional details useful in troubleshooting.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
.B amdgpu-plot \-\-sleep 5 \-\-ltz

.fi
Will open a Gtk window that will display plots of operation parameters for all compatible AMD GPU's that updates
every 5s.  Time stamps displayed will use local time zone.
.P
.B cat \fIlogfile\fR | \fBamdgpu-plot \-\-stdin \-\-simlog \-\-sleep 1

.fi
Will open a Gtk window that will display plots of the GPU operation data in the specified \fIlogfile\fR
to simulate streamed data with a 1 sec interval.
.P

.SH "FILES"
.PP
.TP
\fB/usr/share/misc/pci.ids\fR
The system list of all known AMD PCI ID's (vendors, devices, classes and subclasses).
It can be updated with the \fBupdate-pciids\fR command.
.TP
\fB~/.amdgpu-utils/amd_pci_id.txt\fR
A locally updated list of all known AMD PCI ID's (vendors, devices, classes and subclasses).
It is preferred to use the system PCI ID file.  If the local file exists, it will be used instead of
the system file and can be removed with \fB\-\-remove_local\fR option.
.TP
\fB/sys/class/drm/card*/device/pp_od_clk_voltage\fR
Special driver file for each GPU required for \fBamdgpu-utils\fR.
.TP
\fB/etc/default/grub\fR
The grub defaults file where amdgpu.ppfeaturemask needs to be set.

.SH BUGS
Known to not work well with Fiji ProDuo cards and will issue warning messages for Fiji Nano cards.
Please report any additional bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/amdgpu-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cat (1),
.BR amdgpu-monitor (1)
.BR amdgpu (4),
.BR update-grub (8),
.BR update-pciids (8),
.BR lspci (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The amdgpu-plot command is part of the amdgpu-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/amdgpu-utils
