.TH AMDGPU\-PAC 1 "October 2019" "amdgpu-utils" "AMDGPU-UTILS Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
amdgpu-pac \- program and control compatible AMD GPUs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amdgpu-pac
.RB [ \-\-help "] [" \-\-about "]"
.br
.B amdgpu-pac
.RB [ \-\-execute_pac "] [" \-\-no_fan "] [" \-\-force_write "] [" \-\-debug "]

.SH CONFIGURATION
All amdgpu-utils require that compatible GPU cards and drivers are installed and that
the feature to access them is enabled.  This can be accomplished by adding
amdgpu.ppfeaturemask=0xfffd7fff to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT value in
/etc/default/grub and executing update-grub.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B amdgpu-pac
will present the user with a gui to modify the operating conditions of compatible AMD GPUs.
With this utility, the user can change GPU power limit, S-Clk and M-Clk P-state/Curve definitions,
P-state masks, fan speed, and power performance mode.
By default, the commands to be written to a GPU are written to a bash file for the user to inspect
and run with root permissions.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR " \-\-about"
Will display details about
.B amdgpu-pac\fP.
.TP
.BR " \-\-execute_pac"
Will execute a bash file created with commands written to the AMD driver files to modify the operating
conditions of the selected GPU/GPUs.  The default behavior is to only create the bash files for the user
to execute.
.TP
.BR " \-\-no_fan"
Will exclude fan information from the display and will not include fans in writing or resetting
GPU operating conditions.
.TP
.BR " \-\-force_write"
Will result in all parameters being writen to the selected GPU/GPUs instead of the default behavior of
only writing changes.
.TP
.BR " \-\-debug"
Will display additional details useful in troubleshooting.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
.B amdgpu-pac

.fi
Will open a Gtk based user interface which will display current or default values for modifiable GPU operating
parameters.  The interface supports entry of new values for all compatible AMD GPUs.  The user can select to save
or reset values for individual or all GPUs.  By default, the commands for writing to the GPUs are saved to bash files
for the user to inspect and then execute as root.  It is suggested that \fBamdgpu-monitor\fR be used to make sure
the changes are made as expected.
.P
.B amdgpu-pac \-\-execute-pac

.fi
To simplify this process, the \fB\-\-execute-pac\fR option can be specified to automate execution of the bash files.
A message in the user interface will indicate if credentials are required in the original terminal window.
.P
.B amdgpu-pac \-\-force_write

.fi
With this option, all parameters will be written to the bash file, even if they are unchanged.  This is useful in
creating bash files used to put GPU's into a known state which is convenient for use in start up routines.
.P

.SH "FILES"
.PP
.TP
\fBamd_pci_id.txt\fR
A list of all known AMD PCI ID's (vendors, devices, classes and subclasses).
.TP
\fB/sys/class/drm/card*/device/pp_od_clk_voltage\fR
Special driver file for each GPU required for \fBamdgpu-utils\fR.

.SH BUGS
Known to not work well with Fiji ProDuo cards and will issue warning messages for Fiji Nano cards.  The
display of P-state masks is always the defaults, not the actual values.
Please report any additional bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/amdgpu-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR amdgpu (4),
.BR amdgpu-monitor (1)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The amdgpu-pac command is part of the amdgpu-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/amdgpu-utils
