.TH GPU-PLOT 1 "May 2022" "rickslab-gpu-utils" "Ricks-Lab GPU Utilities"
.nh
.SH NAME
gpu-plot \- continuously update and plot critical GPU parameters as a function of time

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpu-plot
.RB [ \-\-help " | " \-\-about "]"
.br
.B gpu-plot
.RB [ \-\-no_fan "] [" \-\-stdin "] [" \-\-simlog "] [" \-\-ltz "] [" \-\-sleep " \fIN\fP] [" \-\-debug "] [" \-\-verbose "]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gpu-plot
is a utility to continuously plot the trend of critical GPU parameters for all compatible
GPUs. The \fB--sleep N\fR can be used to specify the update interval.  The \fBgpu-plot\fR
utility has 2 modes of operation.  The default mode is to read the GPU driver details
directly, which is useful as a standalone utility.  The \fB--stdin\fR option causes
\fBgpu-plot\fR to read GPU data from stdin.  This is how \fBgpu-mon\fR produces the
plot and can also be used to pipe your own data into the process.  The \fB--simlog\fR
option can be used with the \fB--stdin\fR when a monitor log file is piped as stdin.
This is useful for troubleshooting and can be used to display saved log results.
The \fB--ltz\fR option results in the use of local time instead of UTC.  If you plan
to run both \fBgpu-plot\fR and \fBgpu-mon\fR, then the \fB--plot\fR option of the
\fBgpu-mon\fR utility should be used instead of both utilities in order reduce data
reads by a factor of 2.  Finally, the \fB--verbose\fR option will result in informational
messages to be displayed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR " \-\-about"
Will display details about
.B gpu-plot\fP.
.TP
.BR " \-\-ltz"
Use local time zone instead of UTC for displays and logging.
.TP
.BR " \-\-no_fan"
Will exclude fan information from the display.  Useful with watercooled GPUs.
.TP
.BR " \-\-stdin"
Will read data from stdin.  This is useful to display plots of a logfile save with \fBgpu-mon\fR.
.TP
.BR " \-\-simlog"
When used with the \-\-stdin option, it will simulate the reading of data from the logfile at a rate
define by \fB\-\-sleep\fR.
.TP
.BR " \-\-sleep " \fIN\fP
Specifies N, the number of seconds to sleep between updates.
.TP
.BR " \-\-verbose"
Display informational messages generated during execution.
.TP
.BR " \-\-debug"
Will output additional useful debug/troubleshooting details to a log file.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
.B gpu-plot \-\-sleep 5 \-\-ltz

.fi
Will open a Gtk window that will display plots of operation parameters for all compatible GPU's that updates
every 5s.  Time stamps displayed will use local time zone.
.P
.B cat \fIlogfile\fR | \fBgpu-plot \-\-stdin \-\-simlog \-\-sleep 1

.fi
Will open a Gtk window that will display plots of the GPU operation data in the specified \fIlogfile\fR
to simulate streamed data with a 1 sec interval.
.P

.SH CONFIGURATION
In order to get maximum capability of these utilities, you should be running with a kernel that
provides support of the GPUs you have installed.  If using AMD GPUs, installing the latest amdgpu
driver package or the latest ROCm release, may provide additional capabilities. If you have Nvidia
GPUs installed, nvidia-smi must also be installed in order for the utility reading of the cards
to be possible.  Writing to GPUs is currently only possible for AMD GPUs, and only with compatible
cards and with the AMD ppfeaturemask set to 0xfffd7fff. This can be accomplished by adding
amdgpu.ppfeaturemask=0xfffd7fff to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT value in
/etc/default/grub and executing sudo update-grub.

.SH "FILES"
.PP
.TP
\fB/usr/share/misc/pci.ids\fR
The system list of all known AMD PCI ID's (vendors, devices, classes and subclasses).
It can be updated with the \fBupdate-pciids\fR command.
.TP
\fB/sys/class/drm/card*/device/pp_od_clk_voltage\fR
Special driver file for each AMD GPU required for some \fBrickslab-gpu-utils\fR.
.TP
\fB/etc/default/grub\fR
The grub defaults file where amdgpu.ppfeaturemask needs to be set.

.SH BUGS
Known to not work well with Fiji ProDuo cards and will issue warning messages for Fiji Nano cards.
Please report any additional bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/gpu-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cat (1),
.BR gpu-mon (1)
.BR amdgpu (4),
.BR nvidia-smi (1),
.BR update-grub (8),
.BR update-pciids (8),
.BR lspci (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The gpu-plot command is part of the rickslab-gpu-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/gpu-utils
