.TH GPU\-PAC 1 "May 2022" "rickslab-gpu-utils" "Ricks-Lab GPU Utilities"
.nh
.SH NAME
gpu-pac \- program and control compatible GPUs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpu-pac
.RB [ \-\-help " | " \-\-about "]"
.br
.B gpu-pac
.RB [ \-\-execute_pac "] [" \-\-no_fan "] [" \-\-force_write "] [" \-\-debug "] [" \-\-verbose "]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gpu-pac
provides capability for Program and Control compatible GPUs with this utility.  By default,
the commands to be written to a GPU are written to a bash file for the user to inspect and
run.  If you have confidence, the \fB--execute_pac\fR option can be used to execute and then
delete the saved bash file.  Since the GPU device files are writable only by root, sudo is
used to execute commands in the bash file, as a result, you will be prompted for credentials
in the terminal where you executed \fBgpu-pac\fR. The \fB--no_fan\fR option can be used to
eliminate fan details from the utility. The \fB--force_write\fR option can be used to force
all configuration parameters to be written to the GPU.  The default behavior is to only
write changes.  Finally, the \fB--verbose\fR option will result in informational messages
to be displayed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR " \-\-about"
Will display details about
.B gpu-pac\fP.
.TP
.BR " \-\-execute_pac"
Will execute a bash file created with commands written to the driver files to modify the operating
conditions of the selected GPU/GPUs.  The default behavior is to only create the bash files for the user
to execute.
.TP
.BR " \-\-no_fan"
Will exclude fan information from the display and will not include fans in writing or resetting
GPU operating conditions.
.TP
.BR " \-\-force_write"
Will result in all parameters being writen to the selected GPU/GPUs instead of the default behavior of
only writing changes.
.TP
.BR " \-\-verbose"
Display informational messages generated during execution.
.TP
.BR " \-\-debug"
Will output additional useful debug/troubleshooting details to a log file.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
.B gpu-pac

.fi
Will open a Gtk based user interface which will display current or default values for modifiable GPU operating
parameters.  The interface supports entry of new values for all compatible GPUs.  The user can select to save
or reset values for individual or all GPUs. It is suggested that \fBgpu-mon\fR be used
to make sure the changes are made as expected.
.P
.B gpu-pac \-\-execute_pac

.fi
To simplify this process, the \fB\-\-execute_pac\fR option can be specified to automate execution of the bash files.
A message in the user interface will indicate if credentials are required in the original terminal window.
.P
.B gpu-pac \-\-force_write

.fi
With this option, all parameters will be written to the bash file, even if they are unchanged.  This is useful in
creating bash files used to put GPU's into a known state which is convenient for use in start up routines.
.P

.SH CONFIGURATION
In order to get maximum capability of these utilities, you should be running with a kernel that
provides support of the GPUs you have installed.  If using AMD GPUs, installing the latest amdgpu
driver package or the latest ROCm release, may provide additional capabilities. If you have Nvidia
GPUs installed, nvidia-smi must also be installed in order for the utility reading of the cards
to be possible.  Writing to GPUs is currently only possible for AMD GPUs, and only with compatible
cards and with the AMD ppfeaturemask set to 0xfffd7fff. This can be accomplished by adding
amdgpu.ppfeaturemask=0xfffd7fff to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT value in
/etc/default/grub and executing sudo update-grub.

.SH "FILES"
.PP
.TP
\fB/usr/share/misc/pci.ids\fR
The system list of all known PCI ID's (vendors, devices, classes and subclasses).
It can be updated with the \fBupdate-pciids\fR command.
.TP
\fB/sys/class/drm/card*/device/pp_od_clk_voltage\fR
Special driver file for each AMD GPU required by some \fBrickslab-gpu-utils\fR.
.TP
\fB/etc/default/grub\fR
The grub defaults file where amdgpu.ppfeaturemask needs to be set.

.SH BUGS
Known to not work well with Fiji ProDuo cards and will issue warning messages for Fiji Nano cards.  The
display of P-state masks is always the defaults, not the actual values.
Please report any additional bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/gpu-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gpu-mon (1),
.BR amdgpu (4),
.BR update-grub (8),
.BR update-pciids (8),
.BR lspci (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The gpu-pac command is part of the rickslab-gpu-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/gpu-utils
