.TH GPU\-LS 1 "May 2022" "rickslab-gpu-utils" "Ricks-Lab GPU Utilities"
.nh
.SH NAME
gpu-ls \- display details about compatible GPU cards

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpu-ls
.RB [ \-\-short " | " \-\-long " | " \-\-raw " | " \-\-table "]"
.br
.B gpu-ls
.RB [ \-\-pstates " | " \-\-ppm " | " \-\-features " | " \-\-clinfo "]"
.br
.B gpu-ls
.RB [ \-\-no_markup "] [" \-\-force_all "] [" \-\-verbose "] [" \-\-no_fan "] [" \-\-debug "]"
.br
.B gpu-ls
.RB [ \-\-help " | " \-\-about "]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gpu-ls
displays most relevant parameters for installed and compatible GPUs. The
default behavior is to list relevant parameters by GPU.  OpenCL platform information is
added when the \fB--clinfo\fR option is used.  A brief listing of key parameters is
available with the \fB--short\fR command line option.  A simplified table of current
GPU state is displayed with the \fB--table\fR option. The \fB--no_fan\fR can be used to
ignore fan settings.  The \fB--pstate\fR option can be used to output the p-state table
for each GPU instead of the list of basic parameters.  The \fB--ppm\fR option is used
to output the table of available power/performance modes instead of basic parameters.
The \fB--features\fR option is used to output the table of amdgpu pp features and their
status instead of basic parameters. The \fB--force_all\fR option will result in the attempt
read of all of the sensors defined in \fBrickslab-gpu-utils\fR.  The  \fB--raw\fR option will
attempt to read all possible driver files and display a lightly formatted version of the
results.  Finally, the \fB--verbose\fR option will result in informational messages to be
displayed.  By default, output data is formatted and color coded, so the \fB--no_markup\fR
option can be specified to get plain text.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR " \-\-about"
Will display details about 
.B gpu-ls\fP.
.TP
.BR " \-\-short"
Will display short list of key descriptive parameters for each installed GPU.
.TP
.BR " \-\-long"
Will display long list of descriptive parameters and all of output for \fBppm\fR, \fBpstate\fR,
\fBfeatures\fR, and \fBclinfo\fR reports for each installed GPU.
.TP
.BR " \-\-table"
Will display table of basic GPU parameters.
.TP
.BR " \-\-raw"
Will display a summary from the reading of all driver files, evening those not
used by \fBrickslab-gpu-utils\fR. The output will indicate which sensors are
used and the contents of all driver files that are readable.
.TP
.BR " \-\-ppm"
Will display descriptions of available power performance modes.
.TP
.BR " \-\-pstates"
Will display P-state table for system and memory clocks.
.TP
.BR " \-\-features"
Will display PP Features table that gives details of driver feature status.
.TP
.BR " \-\-clinfo"
If the clinfo package is installed, openCL details will be included in the output
for each compatible GPU.
.TP
.BR " \-\-no_fan"
Will exclude fan information from the display.  Useful with water cooled GPUs.
.TP
.BR " \-\-no_markup"
Outputs plain text instead of color formatted text.
.TP
.BR " \-\-force_all"
Forces the read of all configured sensors and includes a summary of sensors that could not be read.
.TP
.BR " \-\-verbose"
Display informational messages generated during execution.
.TP
.BR " \-\-debug"
Will output additional useful debug/troubleshooting details to a log file.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
.B gpu-ls

.fi
This will display the basic parameters for all compatible GPUs.  These include
device ID, GPU frequency/voltage control type, decoded device ID, card model, short card model,
display card model, card number, card path, PCIe ID, driver, vBIOS version, HWmon path, current power,
power cap, power cap range, fan enable, fan PWM mode, current fan PWM, current fan speed,
fan target speed, fan speed range, fan PWM range, current temp, critical temp, current VddGF,
Vddc range, current GPU loading, memory details, link speed, link width, current Sclk p-state,
current Sclk frequency, Sclk range, current Mclk p-state, current Mclk frequency,
Mclk range, power performance mode, and power force performance level.
.P
.B gpu-ls \-\-short \-\-verbose

.fi
This will produce a short list of key descriptive parameters for each installed GPU.  Informational
messages on utility execution will be displayed before the GPU summary output.
.P
.B gpu-ls \-\-clinfo

.fi
In addition to the basic parameters, openCL parameters are also displayed for each compatible GPU.
This option is dependent on the installation of \fBclinfo\fR.
.P
.B gpu-ls \-\-ppm

.fi
Instead of the basic parameters, a table of power/performance modes is displayed.
.P
.B gpu-ls \-\-pstates

.fi
Instead of the basic parameters, a table of power states or curve points is displayed.
.P
.B gpu-ls \-\-raw

.fi
This option will probe all possible driver files and display a summary that shows the results
of reading the files.  If the driver file used by the utility, then the utility keyword and
description will be included in the output colored green.  Details read from each file are displayed
in cyan.
.P

.SH CONFIGURATION
In order to get maximum capability of these utilities, you should be running with a kernel that
provides support of the GPUs you have installed.  If using AMD GPUs, installing the latest amdgpu
driver package or the latest ROCm release, may provide additional capabilities. If you have Nvidia
GPUs installed, nvidia-smi must also be installed in order for the utility reading of the cards
to be possible.  Writing to GPUs is currently only possible for AMD GPUs, and only with compatible
cards and with the AMD ppfeaturemask set to 0xfffd7fff. This can be accomplished by adding
amdgpu.ppfeaturemask=0xfffd7fff to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT value in
/etc/default/grub and executing sudo update-grub.

.SH "FILES"
.PP
.TP
\fB/usr/share/misc/pci.ids\fR
The system list of all known PCI ID's (vendors, devices, classes and subclasses).
It can be updated with the \fBupdate-pciids\fR command.
.TP
\fB/sys/class/drm/card*/device/pp_od_clk_voltage\fR
Special driver file for each AMD GPU required by some \fBrickslab-gpu-utils\fR.
.TP
\fB/etc/default/grub\fR
The grub defaults file where amdgpu.ppfeaturemask needs to be set.

.SH BUGS
Known to not work well with Fiji ProDuo cards and will issue warning messages for Fiji Nano cards.
Please report any additional bugs/issues at https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/gpu-utils

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR clinfo (1),
.BR amdgpu (4),
.BR nvidia-smi (1),
.BR update-grub (8),
.BR update-pciids (8),
.BR lspci (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The gpu-ls command is part of the rickslab-gpu-utils package and is available from
https://github.com/Ricks-Lab/gpu-utils
